when I deposit my funds go into a
contract right if I'm depositing a
Solana or a USDC that transaction can be
tracked the first transaction
>> I wish we can remove that we have
thought it a lot but
>> can you tell us why privacy is important
>> it is something which I want to use is
freedom
>> the way I want to place trades I don't
want to reveal many I'm a very secretive
person
>> USDC has a very specific address and the
authority for that is circuit the token
contract will ensure that they are the
only ones that are ever allowed to mint
it. But then when you are creating an
encrypted version, it would be a new
mint. How can anyone interacting with
this token understand that your
encrypted version is actually the
canonical and it's not something else?
>> This is very similar to shielded assets.
Every transfer is just an addition and a
subtraction, right? That is done through
proofs and attestations.
>> When you say proofs, what type of proofs
are these testations? Right? Now,
>> how exactly does that work? So basically
like
[Music]
hello everyone welcome to the season 2
of on leaders podcast. So today we have
with us the cipher team. So they are
super team members and also really
really devs from web 2 that have made
their journey to web 3. They also
recently won the coliseum hackathon.
Congratulations on that. Welcome to the
podcast Nisha.
>> Thank you.
>> Cool. Thank you.
>> Thank you for being here. Would love to
dive deeper into your journey. Maybe
even before starting in cipher. What
were you doing before this?
>> Yeah. So I graduated like in 201
straight out of college. I joined
Goldman Sachs. I was in the AI space
before this. I graduated like having a
different degree but I was very much
interested in the AI space. So I was
working on AI for a long time. After
Goldman like I worked there for 2 years.
While I was at Goldman, I was
moonlighting at different web3 startups.
So I was very much interested in the
cryptography and this guest space and
that's when I while I was interning at a
startup which was one of our mutual
friend and mine I met him and then we
started working together on different
projects. We took part in several
hackathons as well and that's when like
one of our projects took off. It was
called banana wallet at first and it was
like a zk plus account abstraction thing
with you know with wallets and yeah we
got into some accelerators got some
funding that gave us the you know
capacity to quit our full-time job and
then do this on a you know daily basis.
That's how company got started. It was
like around two years ago 2.5 years ago
and yeah since then we have worked
extensively in the cryptography and the
space like worked with companies like
you know aail in solving zk through
aggregation problems working with
companies like polygon maiden which is
like a privacy layer 2 in building fully
onchain based games and yeah a lot of
problems around this general MPC FHE and
privacy enhancing technologies area. So
yeah that's how we got the idea of
incipher as well. It was around like 1.5
years ago while we were working with
these companies and yeah since then we
have been developing over in cipher
talking to users and trying to improve
it.
>> Vish has already covered like the
journey like how we actually started
like how we met and how we got where we
are right now. A bit a little bit about
me like I have been in this space like
from last 4 years now and before that
like I worked at mathworks. At Matox I
was working with like building B2B
solutions like for 500 companies post
that sort of like started participating
in hackathons first sort of like
learning about new stuff every day and
then as Risha mentioned like one of our
mutual friend has been working on
something cool some cool stuff like with
regards to account abstraction. So I
really like that a lot and joined
science with him and there I met Rishop
and then our journey sort of like
started and like from last three plus we
have been like extremely extensively
working with like distributed systems
and in general like cryptographic has
been what you're building today is you
you have been working on like core
cryptographic primitives and then
naturally like you mentioned you have
been gravitating a lot towards the
towards ZKN cryptography. So h how did
all of this like come towards nipher and
what does ncipher do
>> maybe a tlddr first right now what
ncipher is it's enabling private trading
on jupiter and anybody who has you like
most of the solana folks have used
jupiter and right now what whatever
trades you place they are public in
nature so what we figured out a way is
that you can trade on Jupiter using the
best price execution which jupitter
gives but the trade which you place is
not public in nature. So nobody can make
sure that which trade you are placing,
which tokens you are buying, which
tokens you are selling. But the idea or
this exact positioning was figured out
from a very you know a lot of failures
or I would say iterations as I mentioned
earlier like it started like 1.5 years
ago and that at that time we were still
in the idea maze trying to see what can
work what cannot work trying to talk to
a lot of users but we were very
convinced that this is something which
is a very huge gap in the space and we
wanted to solve that that's how the idea
started and we started with a different
very different approach like at first
encipher was entirely different that you
see right now. It was somewhere like we
even thought of creating a you know
creating our own rollup but soon after
talking to a lot of users we realized
that nobody like wants a different chain
or a different execution environment
just for getting privacy onto their
applications and users or may
specifically retail users most of the
businesses also but they will only value
privacy as a feature and when it is
deployed or basically given it given as
a feature on their chain or their
execution environment and their
applications. So that's how we got into
this idea that let's think of something
how we can enable this on existing
chains like Ethereum, Solana and all
these bigger chains who already have
volume. So that's how we got the idea
and we start you know developing things
on top of it and we got into the idea of
the co-processor which I think you can
explain better but that was the start of
everything like in this whole process
like it was very painful I would say
because talking to the users and getting
those insights and get then iterating on
top of them is really really really hard
I guess but yeah I guess that's the
process that the IDM that everyone has
to go through I will still say that we
have like it's not PMF that we have
achieved the PMF but I think that this
idea of what positioning that we have is
having that capacity.
>> Yeah, it would be helpful for viewers to
you know if you could show what N cipher
does.
>> Yep. So I mean this is the application
that it's released like two weeks ago or
3 weeks ago in a private beta and we are
still improving a lot but there is an
access code which is needed just to you
know use the application but after you
enter the application you need to
deposit some assets whatever you want to
trade on Jupiter. So I'm already having
some assets over here. So I'm not going
to do it. But over here you can search
the assets as well. And you you are
shown whatever assets you are having on
your wallet that you have connected
with. And after you deposit, it takes
very less time to deposit the assets.
And you can see the asset page. It will
show you all the things that you have in
in cipher application deposited or
basically you have encrypted. So the
cool thing is that whenever you
deposited in cipher, those assets are
not visible on chain now. So all these
assets that are there with me which you
see in the list if you see my address
and see it on chain you'll not be able
to see that my address holds this much
amount of monk or this much amount of
USDC or juke or soul. So that's the like
that's the power of encrypted assets.
Nobody knows how many assets you are
holding and if I want to take make a
trade as well. So let's assume I am
buying soul for 100 USDC and I can also
like send it to another address or
another wallet which I'm having. I
confirm like all these all these and the
very good thing about this is that all
the rates and all the fees or everything
is fetched from Jupiter. So whatever
they are providing we only provide that
and we charge a small fees like a 0.1%
fees on top of it right now. So the
trade is executing right now. The thing
needs to be improved is like the timing
right now is around 20-ish seconds as
it's done. But we need to improve this a
lot and it will be good time because
code will be improving with time. So if
I go to the asset page then I can see my
assets over there. Yep. So this is the
transaction that happened right now for
buying soul. You can buy any asset that
you want. I can buy any memecoin that I
want or fartcoin or whatever assets is
listed on Jupiter. It basically is here
to trade upon and even like stocks which
happened like I think last week. So we
integrated it within like 2 three hours
at night so that people are able to buy
like Tesla with fartcoin maybe. So that
was a huge thing. So yeah this is a very
small demo.
>> Very cool.
>> The couple of things that you mentioned
right that I'm actually curious to
curious to learn more about. One thing
that you mentioned was for example you
showed your assets and also said that if
you go to the you know look up the same
address on on an explodered it wouldn't
show these balances yet they exist as
assets right so now how how exactly does
that work so so basically like with all
the tokens visible over here like so
maybe starting like from the a bit of a
beginning so whenever user deposits
certain tokens the platform via deposit
workflows what we do is we wrap those
tokens to it encrypted equivalent tokens
so for example let's say if I'm
depositing thousand USDC right now so
what what receives like 1,000 equivalent
of like some tokens now now like the
secret sauce here is like a th00and has
been encrypted so what value you can see
on chain is certain gibberish value out
of which like you can never make sense
that this particular value could be USD
and now Rishab could use this
particular,000 USD value to praise the
certain trades over Jupiter So like with
time as more and more people deposits
it's became really difficult for an
external party to sort of like figure
out that this particular trades has been
placed by this particular users who
might have made like this particular
deposits. So that's how we sort of like
our offiscation mechanism works because
like we are actually encrypting the
values and because like by encryption if
you are transferring zero USDC or 10
USDC it's just a random hash. No one can
figure out that how much amount has been
actually deposited and how much has been
actually transferred. So that's sort of
like the foundational offiscation
guarantees and the mixing guarantees we
are sort of like working with.
>> Just to add one point also like all
these assets are first deposited as you
mentioned in a central program right and
then you basically have that encrypted
value or encrypted assets onto your
account. Now at the end of the day when
everything is done let's assume there
was only one participant in the starting
shake you were there and you want to
transfer you deposited or made like
1,000 USDC encrypted you transfer like
700 to hurricane and when wants to
withdraw those assets he's also having
an encrypted USDC and you are also
having encrypted USDC now you prove to
the program that he's having like Harit
when he wants to withdraw he proves that
yeah I am having this much amount of
value and from that program I can claim
back like 700 when he wants to withdraw
or whatever amount he he wants to
withdraw. So that's how it works like
that change in encrypted values is
basically happening so that at the end
of the day the user of those or the
holder of those tokens can claim that
token as well.
>> One curious question few curious
questions I guess. First was you
mentioned when I deposit my funds go
into a contract right if I'm depositing
a Solana or a USDC I'm assuming that
transaction can be tracked the very
first transaction.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I wish we can remove that.
We have thought it a lot. But on public
chains, it's so hard to bring privacy at
a programmable level so that you know
nobody can track whatever happens. But
the deposit and the withdraw
transactions sadly will be public for
now at least unless and until the core
blockchain or the core execution client
makes a change in themsel.
>> Yeah, we probably need a very
discussionable hard fork to enable that.
So yeah,
>> makes sense. That makes sense. Okay. So
when you deposit, you mentioned, if I
understand this correctly, you wrap that
token which I'm assuming you you issue
another token that's I don't know a
wrapped USDC
>> version. That version
>> sounds good. And you mentioned the
quantities are hash. Is that what you
mentioned?
>> Yeah, you can you can consider that the
quantities are hash. That's sort of like
the one explanation which sort of like
works works for us. It's just that like
the quantities are now sort of like
pointers to cipher text which exists
like in some DA
>> which exists in some DA. So there's like
some off-chain component here where the
amounts are actually stored and what's
stored on chain is a encrypted version
of that. Is that right?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Onchain you basically have hashes
whatever hash that execution client
supports and the pointer to that cipher
text whose hash it is we don't even
store the value we store the cipher
text.
>> Got it. I'm very curious about this data
layer. Then what is this some server
that you have? Was this something else
where you're you know storing the
decrypted versions of these hashes.
>> No we are not using we're not storing a
decrypted version of this. These are the
cipher text which we are storing within
the DDA layer. Ju just before that I I
also have one more question which is
these typic when you hash or when you
encrypt something the you know these
tend I mean most of these hashing
functions tend to have like a very large
avalanche effect in the sense that you
change one value you know it changes the
out the the cipher text like
drastically. So given that given that is
the case, how do you actually
differentiate between the input being
you know 100 versus 500. I'm assuming
you would need in order to be able to
successfully match without or even
execute this particular transaction
without actually seeing what is inside
the encrypted text. You would need to
know this, right? So how are you guys
doing it or is it that the part that the
other question is like for example you
mentioned since it is on are you able to
like decrypt it at some point and then
execute it. So the way we are doing it
like we have defined some sort of DSL
and like what I what I mean is like tell
is like it's not a different DSL which
developers have to learn or do anything
like that. It's sort of like inherent
libraries which developer have to sort
of like let's say import it on their
programs which sort of like exposes
certain functions. So basically like we
have this foundational arithmetic
primitives we have this foundational
control flows we have this foundational
switch placements and flex placement
multiplex things like that. So what we
have did like we have built a sort of
like the wrapped version for this
foundational primitive which works on
top of these harshes. So for example
let's say if I'm using n cipher and and
if I want to express some of my intent
or some of my program logic what I can
do is I can just import this
foundational primitive from this
libraries and can encode that particular
logic using those foundational primitive
as just a normal function call and every
foundational primitive let's say for
let's for for example let's say addition
operation what it does it it has like
certain hash derivation function which
basically calculates a certain hash
which would be outputed when two input
hashes have been provided and the same
computations happens within the
co-processor as well that the resultant
hash for both the operation which has
been performed onchain and which has
been performed offchain should be
similar should be equal to explain like
the offchain co-processor a bit so right
now like our execution client don't have
the capabilities to work with all this
encrypted data because like to to enable
that we'll have to have like multiple
hardworks and we need like multiple
system programs and pre-ompise to enable
that so that's Why we have like this
off-chain verifiable co-processor which
basically helps this execution client to
perform computation on the encrypted
data parallelly so that this execution
client can just deal with the result and
hash computation where the final
encrypted rate result should be stored
and our offchain co-processor should be
able to work actually work on top of
this encrypted data and calculate this
like counterfactual hashes which will be
calculated ideally with the same hashes
should be calculated ideally on chain
and assigns the relevant cipher vertex
as the resultant output to that
particular hash. Now this particular
offchain co-processor is sort of like a
back end entity. It could leverage
multiple ts. So multiple pet infra it
could be FG it could be D it could be
any sort of like homorphic encryption
algorithms any any sort of like pet
infra which you want to enable compute
we can do that it's modular enough
>> yeah I mean we started with FHE and then
move towards right now we are experiment
or basically building with TE's the
co-processor is operating on that model
that it calculates the encrypted
computation takes place inside the TE's
and it was it can be like changed in
future as well. How hard is it to rent T
environments compared to a cloud
provider? I mean at at scale I don't
know if you've hit scale yet, but is
that a challenge like a an H100 or is
that easy?
>> No, the thing is that like the
underlying encryption algorithm we are
right now using like with this is
efficient enough like they have been
like already used in lots of production
environment. So that's not a major
challenge for us. And with with regards
to like T's availability, there have
been like lots of new hardware
development H100 A like lots of lots of
new GPU firmware and system softwares
have been like built around like with T
supports. So with regards to T support
things are scaling on that that
direction. So that like for us
horizontal scaling is not an issue. I
>> I'm curious to check out the transaction
that you just did the swap transaction
and you know what do we see on
>> I can see see send you my wallet
address. Just try to see it. That's your
wallet address.
>> Yeah, this was the one which I executed.
>> So this transaction happened a day ago.
So is one of these the deposit
transactions? Let's say this one.
>> This is the withdraw one. I withdraw
like some assets yesterday. I guess
that's the that's the one
>> from a user's perspective, right? There
is no place for me to go and you know
actually verify this transaction that
happened. And right now I'm looking at
the app, right? So what and also these
are I'm assuming the mints that you
have. These are your own wrapped
versions. So technically anyone could
anyone could take a USDC and create a
wrapped version of that USD of that USDC
doesn't really need I mean it doesn't
need need circle as an authority it
doesn't need the signature right so I'm
kind of curious how you are thinking
about establishing trust in whatever
you're doing for all for all you know
this entire thing is blackbox right so
it you can you could be taking USDC and
you know minting some minting something
else, right? So, how are you how are you
thinking about verifiability? So like
British like answering the first
question with regards to how I can like
being a sort of like the user of this
protocol how can I make sure that I have
the access to those particular
transaction whose the transaction which
I initiate like from my wallet right so
to tackle that like we have a certain
ACL contracts deployed uh we are still
sort of like working on making it bit
more robust but sort of like a version
one of those contracts have been
deployed which which makes sure that
whatever cipher text which is being
generated by your wallet. You should be
having access to those cipher texts
because alone having these cipher text
onchain won't help going to help us to
build a sort of like a fully secure
protocol because at certain time like
any user could just reuse those cipher
text could reuse those hash and maybe
make some like malicious or faulty
transaction. We need to have some form
of access control that this particular
hashes or this particular cipher text
which have been generated during this
particular duration or by this
particular wallet should only be
accessible in terms of like viewing
those cipher texts and in terms of
actually computing on top of those
cipher text via certain addresses. So
that's like one of the protocol which we
have deployed we call it we call it ACL
contracts and that also helps us with
post transaction checks because now what
we can do is we could have like certain
auditor entities for example let's say
the way we have built this Jupyter
protocol now every hash which is being
generated in this Jupyter protocol now
we could have like certain auditor
entity who has like access to all these
hashes now this particular auditor
entity might like in future if like c
certain malicious things happen in into
our protocol this particular ACL could
help us prove that we we were the we
were the on party like we weren't this
particular users weren't involved in
this particular trade activities or
malicious activities.
>> Yeah. The second one was around the the
mint. For example, USDC has a very
specific mint address and the authority
for that is circle, right? You can they
are the only one because the the token
contract will ensure that they are the
only ones that are ever allowed to mint
it. But then when you are creating an
encrypted version, it's it would be a
new mint, right? So how do you how can
anyone interacting with this token
understand that the your encrypted
version is actually the canonical and
it's not something else.
>> The thing is that these programs or
these smart contracts will be public. So
most of the people who like it will be a
normal contract which is deployed on
chain and people can see that this is
the contract that USDC or basically
encrypted USDC mints encrypted USDC and
if they are like we'll be making it
official obviously in the website that
this is the contract that is that mints
official encrypted USDC and you should
be interacting with this only obviously
it's not a standard that everybody will
be accepting encrypted USDC on day one
but this is something which will be used
by our application. So this is very
similar to shielded assets which is
being used by when you use zero
knowledge groups the shielded assets you
also have a particular asset type which
basically that application uses. So you
can take an example of rail gun it's
very pretty similar to that that asset
is only having validity or usage with
that with that application environment.
The application doesn't assume or
basically say or even demands that other
application applications should be
accepting this. If anybody wants they
can use this they can integrate it. They
should be using this contract address to
make sure that everything is verifiable
and only assets issued from here or this
contract address should be used by them.
So that can be done but at when we start
like we have to make those contracts by
ourself or those programs by ourself
which basically makes onetoone relation
from every asset to every encrypted
asset and obviously like when every
transfer there will be a proof
verification or an attest attestation
verification which makes sure that every
transfer of asset or every like every
transfer is just an addition and a
subtraction right so that is done
properly that is done through proofs and
attestation.
>> When when you say proofs, what type of
proof?
>> Attestation. Basically, the attestations
right now
>> just just a subset of the cipher text
validity proof and the range proof
>> that whatever value the user is sending
as a cipher text to us is it's not
malicious and we verify that yeah this
is the hash or basically this is the
cipher text corresponding to the
original message and there is no
collusion in the process of calculating
this cipher text.
>> Have you built something similar on
other chain as well? Is this like your
first implementation or is this
implementation done on other chains?
This is the first Solana implementation.
>> We have been there in the EVM space for
a long time. So we have deployed some
versions on arbitra and base and world
chain. The offchain entity, the
verifiable co-processor remains the
same. The only thing that changes are
onchain contracts and the primitives
that are being used in the execution
environment. The off-chain entity is
pretty agnostic of the execution
environment over here. Obviously like we
are focusing on one right now. Obviously
we'll be expanding vertically going deep
inside it but it's pretty agnostic of
the execution environment.
>> You guys want to colossium what's your
plan after this?
>> Hopefully we will be expanding more on
getting users right now. We are focusing
a lot on the GTM right now to get as
many users as possible. So if anybody is
watching and wants privacy please get in
touch. We really think that we can solve
your problems and like the like
personally I have been talking to a lot
of users and I really have come to a
conclusion that yeah these are the
personas that are required privacy what
are these personas trying to have what
kind of applications what kind of
features these each person needs that
they will be benefited and so and trying
to implement them inside incipher so
right now getting users and getting more
feedback from them will help us improve
because it's in private beta So the
target is not to have bigger volumes
right now. Obviously bigger volumes is
are good. Obviously they are good but
with feedback we'll improve and then
when we go public mainet that will
basically make sure that we get to the
you know we get the we will get PMF or
not that will be decided. How do you
hire? Are you hiring right now? And what
do you look for in a candidate
specifically a developer?
>> So like an important where in very
non-negotiable capability which
capability of let's say it's sort of
like the motivation which I look for is
like does this problem statement excites
you and are you ready to break the
barriers which we are currently facing.
If if if your answer sort of like
convinces me and if I get excited after
hearing your your answers then you are
hired. That's that's only two things I
sort of like look for into a candidate.
>> Yeah. Obviously there are technical
questions that we make sure that we give
you one problem that you are able to
solve or basically help us understand
the codebase or anything that we are
trying so we try to make sure that
anything that we are trying to work on
right now and if it is very generic we
try to make sure that you are able to
explain this or help us in that and I
also make sure that for technical or
non-technical roles we give them some
timeline that let's work for this
timeline let's see that how you fit in
the culture because hiring is one of the
biggest things in the early stage
startups you basically need to hire
those people you keep for a long time
and especially the core team and like
things get very tough sometimes like we
I still know where we we have been
through and there are some times where
you don't know specifically what you are
going to do like you don't have any idea
what you are building you don't know
what you will be building or basically
whether you will be building or not but
you need to give you need to be
optimistic and the people need to trust
you as a founder that yeah this guy will
figure out something I just need to give
him some time and at that time the
biggest thing is that you are not even
getting paid properly. So you know that
in web 3 everyone is making you know a
lot of money but you know that I am not.
That is the thing that's important to me
that right now whatever you are getting
paid I will make sure that you are rich
afterwards. So just trust me on that.
>> Are you guys actively hiring for any
roles? Yes, for dev roles we are hiring
one I think one opening is there but I
think Nanchu can expand on that but it's
for a position where we want to have
like a very experienced person who can
basically help us in you know
productionizing many things regarding
the cryptographic infrastructure that we
are having or the system design and
everything
>> like we are mostly looking for all
rounder protocol engineer who can help
us scale our infrastructure get things
audited build sort of like a proper
deployment pipelines so that like with
huge loads we won't or only for our own
bottleneck. So like that's sort of like
the highest requirement we have right
now.
>> Got it. That sounds great.
>> We are towards the end of the podcast.
Can you tell us why privacy is
important? Like
>> it is something which I want to use.
That's the shortest answer.
>> Yeah. And for me like privacy is
freedom.
>> I really want to use I mean this has
been the from day one like I really want
to use D5 the way I want to play trades.
I don't want to reveal many things. So
I'm a very secretive person basically. I
have like faced a couple of crypto
attacks like based on my like based on
my public financing which is their
onchain. So that's why like I'm building
the solution for myself. I want to keep
those private.
>> Thank you so much for joining us Natan
Shu and Tisham. And now once again
congratulations on winning the coliseum
hackathon. Super excited for all the
cool cryptographic things that you guys
are building.
>> Thank you. Thank you so much guys. Thank
you so much for having us. This was
great.
>> Thank you. I will go with